Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome
Manager Core Server Development,
Kazu Yanagiharra.
Good afternoon,
and thank you for attending session 802,
Mac OS X Server In-Dev.
Here is what we're going to cover today.
We're going to start off by talking about
remote server administration and the
monitoring capabilities of Jaguar server,
and also what you can do to
make sure your software is
fully remote capable as well.
After that,
we're going to talk about Apple's
directory services architecture,
open directory.
Since there's a separate
session on Thursday,
we're going to only talk
briefly about this here.
Then we're going to talk about high
availability services in the Java server,
followed by some updates
in the file services area.
And lastly, we're going to talk about
web-related features that's
built into the Java server.
And of course,
there's a Q&A session at the end.
And here's what we hope you're going
to learn today in this session.
Okay, remote server administration
and monitoring.
We've been hearing from many and
many of our customers that they
want to run their servers headless,
remotely, without the monitor attached.
In fact, we've been hearing this from
Apple's internal ISN organization,
and it really helps them save space,
helps them save money, and in many cases,
they just want to throw their
servers away into the unsecured
closet and be able to manage those
servers remotely from anywhere,
including office, home,
or even on the road.
And of course,
they want to monitor multiple
servers simultaneously without
being at the server as well.
So we've listened to our customers
and are making some changes in Jaguar
Server to meet that requirement.
First, the OS itself now boot without
having the monitor attached,
which is not the case with the
current version of Mac OS X Server.
Second,
we're upgrading all of our management
software so it's all remote-friendly.
Most of them already were,
but some weren't.
For example,
in print server management software,
today you have to create print
queues manually on the local machine.
With Jaguar Server,
you can do so remotely from the network.
or the other utilities such
as directory services tools
will also be remote friendly.
And lastly, with Jaguar Server,
admins will be able to set system
preferences or perform software update
over the network remotely as well.
So with these changes and new
capabilities in Jaguar's server,
some of your software may have to be
changed so that it runs well on all the
configurations our customers will have.
For example, if the server doesn't have a
monitor and keyboard attached,
it means likely there is
no system login session,
which means your software cannot
rely on having Finder there
to send an Apple event to,
using AppleScript,
or having dependencies on Cocoa.
So exactly what do you need to do?
You need to really decouple
any GUI application,
any GUI component that's built
into your server software,
and make sure that remaining core
functionality is packaged as a daemon
that can run in the background.
And make sure that separated
GUI component can run not
only on the server machine,
but also on any remote machine,
and be able to connect
to the server machine.
Let's look at an example.
Let's say you have a backup software
that's based on Cocoa and it runs on a
server machine today and perhaps have
a couple menu items such as Backup
Now or Configure Backup Software.
This won't work very well because
the admin doesn't want to walk
all the way to the server closet,
attach monitor and keyboard,
and select menu item every time he or she
wants to configure the backup software.
So here's what you need to do.
You need to separate the backup
software into two components:
the Cocoa GUI application and the backup
engine that can run in the background.
And you also need to make sure that the
Cocogui application that you separated
can also run on the remote machine and
be able to communicate with the backup
engine running on a server machine.
Also, since the Cocoa GUI application
is running on a remote machine,
or maybe running on a remote machine,
you may want to provide server
browsing UI so that your user can
easily select a target server.
And you can use the new DNS service
discovery API to achieve this.
And if you're interested in this API,
there's a session, 8.11,
Zero Configuration Networking,
or I guess it's now called Rendezvous,
on Thursday at 2 p.m.
And lastly, now that you have two
different components,
you may want to consider packaging those
two parts into two separate installers.
It's going to make life much
easier for users that way.
Now,
here's an example of how we designed one
of our server administration software,
NetInfo Domain Setup.
The core functionality is
implemented as a command line tool,
shown here in orange,
and it always runs on the server machine.
And then the Cocoa GUI application
that user double-clicks on is
just actually a small wrapper,
and it simply makes a call to the command
line tool to actually do the actual work.
And here's what happens when
the Cocoa GUI applications
run on a remote machine.
It first presents the user
with a user interface that lets
them select the target server.
Then brings up an authentication dialog
where a user can type in the admin
name and password of the target server,
not of the local machine.
The application then uses the name and
password to establish a secure shell
session to the server machine and simply
invoke that tool within the session.
With this technique,
we didn't have to write any
new authentication code,
networking code,
and still be able to actually
support remote administration.
So this is something you may
want to think about also.
It worked out pretty well for us.
Now I will talk a little bit
about remote server monitoring.
With Jaguar Server,
you'll be able to monitor remote
servers in three different ways.
First, for Unix fans,
you can continue to use Terminal, SSH,
and command line tools such as
Netstat and Top to keep their
eyes on the remote servers.
It's simple, but it works real well
for some of our users.
And if you're developing a
server software on Jaguar Server,
you may want to think about
delivering a tool that lets
those users actually monitor your
services over the command line.
The second way is using SNMP.
We ported NetSNMP,
a popular open source package,
to a Jaguar platform,
and it's being shipped as part of both
desktop and server releases of Jaguar.
includes an agent and 15 or so
basic MIBs with which admin can
remotely monitor CPU utilization,
the free disk space,
and so on using industry standard
tools such as HP OpenView.
And there's definitely a developer
opportunity here to deliver additional
MIPS for the Jaguar Server desktop,
a Jaguar Server platform.
The third way is an application
called Server Status,
which is a brand new application that's
built into the Jaguar server and I would
like to show it to you right now.
Demo 2, please.
Go.
Okay, let's launch server status.
Takes a couple seconds.
What's up already?
Let's connect to a server.
Okay, so on the left-hand side,
we are connected to
this server right here.
And on the right-hand side,
you see several tabs.
The overview tab contains basic
information about the server,
such as the version number of the OS,
the serial number,
and basic network configuration.
The next tab, Logs,
lets you display different system logs.
You can select any one
you'd like from here.
And it's actually a live view,
meaning as information
gets added to the log file,
this automatically
updates and scrolls up.
We have not implemented
the hardware tab yet,
but you would see things
such as CPU utilization,
network throughput,
and information on mounted volumes here.
Now, if you look at here,
you also see a list of all the services
that are available on the server machine.
And the ones that are currently
active is marked with a blue circle,
and also their service names bold face.
So, for example, AFP Server,
the directory services, FTP,
and Web are currently running.
Clicking on AFP Server,
you see again different tabs.
The overview tabs again shows
you the basic information
about that particular server,
AFP in this case.
You can go to the logs to see
either error log or access log.
And again, this is live.
You can also go to
Connected Users window here.
You only have one user
connected right now.
You can either send a
message or disconnect.
And the last tab is Graphs tab,
which lets you see the histogram
of either throughput or number of
connected users over a period of time.
And you can specify the time right here,
anywhere from last one
hour up to last seven days.
Now, walking down the services list,
you notice all the services have the
Overview tab in a consistent way,
so you can actually see what's
going on there at a glance.
And most of them also have Logs tab,
so you can see their log files.
Some of them don't, but most of them do.
And some services such as Mail or the
print servers have their own unique tab.
For example, for the print server,
there's a queues tab that lets
you view different print queues
and status on each of them.
And so on.
Now, you can connect to as many
servers as you'd like,
and they all get listed on the left-hand
side right here in this column.
So once you start to get too crowded,
you can do things like showing
only the currently active services,
or you can do filtering by either
service name or the server name,
or both.
So for example,
you can say something like
services that contains letter W,
and it will display that.
Now let's instantiate
another window here.
This is a different window
by looking into same data.
The list here is identical.
But you can use this multiple windows
to actually view different services.
So for example, in this window,
you may be looking at list of
connected users to the AFP server.
And you can actually hide this guy.
Hide this guy
And you may be watching
web service right here.
Maybe it's throughput.
And you can shrink this guy and hide it.
And you can really instantiate
as many windows as you'd like,
so you can simultaneously monitor
number of different servers,
or different services,
or different tabs within the same
service running on the same server.
Lastly, we do have the standard
Mac OS X toolbar on the top.
The one on the left-hand side lets
you jump to different administration
tools for Jaguar Server.
And on the left-hand side is a
set of commonly used commands,
and of course you can customize
it just like any other
standard Mac OS X application.
So that's the real high-level
overview of server status application.
And back to the slide, please.
And now I'd like to talk a little bit
about the architecture of server status.
The application itself is a
Cocoa application that communicates with
the backend server using XML over HTTP,
and of course with SSL for security.
On the backend, on the server machine,
this way,
you have a stripped-down version of
Apache web server with a couple of
custom modules that we've developed.
There is also a set
of command line tools,
one per service,
that knows how to talk to the particular
service and gather information.
So for example, when the user clicks on
AFP connected users tab,
the server status application sends
an HTTP request to the web server.
Web server invokes the
AFP command line tool,
which in turn talks to the AFP server,
gather whatever information
it needs to gather,
and send the data back up the chain.
This design is working
out pretty well for us.
It's real simple,
but it's real easy to unit test,
easy to debug using
standard tools out there.
And notice that back end is web server,
meaning if we decide to support
web browser-based UI in the future,
it's going to be relatively
easy for us to migrate.
Now,
this whole thing is private right now,
and there is no public API,
but we are looking into and we're
interested in opening this one up to
developers if there's enough demand.
So if you think this is something that
might benefit you or may help you write
a better software for a Java server,
please give that feedback to
our developer relations person,
Tom Weyer.
We'd appreciate any
feedback you may have.
Okay, let's move on to the next topic,
open directory.
As I've mentioned earlier,
there is a separate session
on Thursday to talk about
this technology in detail,
so here we're going to
only briefly talk about it.
And also, there were a lot of mentioning
of this technology in Eric's
presentation in previous sessions,
so there are some overlapping,
but it's a really important technology,
so I want to reiterate.
So far is it.
It's Apple's directory
services architecture that lets
different applications share
information on the network.
And it's being utilized by a number of
services in Jaguar Server and also by
different components in Mac OS X Desktop,
such as system preferences
and login window.
It's been available in previous
versions of Mac OS X Server,
but the Jaguar released a
number of new enhancements,
including the password server.
Using Open Directory Read and Write API,
developers can access any directory
system without needing to know the
details of the particular system.
And as Eric mentioned earlier,
Apple ships with NetInfo plugin,
LDAP plugin, both versions 2 and 3,
and a plugin to access flat files,
read-only.
And of course,
Open Directory also provides an API so
you can create your own plugin to access
any other directory systems out there,
such as NIS and Novell directory,
or even database, if you'd like.
So what kind of information do
you want to store in a directory?
We hear a lot of questions about this.
And it's actually pretty much
anything from user attributes,
machine attributes,
any information that you want to
share among multiple applications,
or even service preferences.
So let's look at user
attributes as an example.
Let's say you are writing a VPN server
that supports per user quota on
how long they can stay connected.
Instead of saving that per user quota
information inside your own data file,
you would want to store that information
in a directory in the user record.
And you can do so pretty easily by using
Open Directory's API to find that record,
add the attribute, and later on find it.
Another example would
be service preferences.
So you can store the VPN server's
preferences in directory instead of,
again, in your own data file.
And that way,
the VPN admin GUI can simply use
directory services API to access the
information anywhere on a network,
so it really simplifies implementation
of remote administration
support in your software.
Now,
Eric also talked about Password Server.
It's based on SASO standard,
and it lets services verify
passwords over the network,
but it does not allow you to
retrieve it for better security.
It supports a number of popular
authentication methods out there,
including NTLAM Manager hash, APOP,
CRAM MD5,
any of the Apple's authentication methods
used by Apple Share and other protocols,
and SHA-1.
And Password Server also provides a
number of password policy features,
such as disabling accounts
after a certain time,
while enforcing minimum password links.
So that's really the five minutes real
high-level overview of open directory.
And we encourage you to attend
the Thursday session at 3:30 p.m.
if you're interested in learning
more about this technology.
It's in the room C right
across from this room.
And also,
if you are interested in checking
out the API documentation,
it's available on the developer website
at developer.apple.com/techpubs.
And now that it's being open sourced,
you can download the whole open
source code base from Apple's
open source website as well.
Okay, now I would like to
invite Scott Mulligan,
manager of Server Infrastructure Group,
to tell us about high availability
services in Jaguar Server.
Which button is it?
Which one?
Okay, thanks.
Good afternoon.
My name is Scott Mulligan,
and today I'll be talking to you briefly
about high availability services.
First,
let's make sure we understand what we
mean by high availability services.
In short,
the goal of high availability services
is to make sure that servers and services
always function and are always available.
Some of you may be familiar with
the utility we first introduced with
Mac OS X Server 10.1 called Watchdog.
The watchdog is a utility that launches
service processes and then monitors them.
It can detect if a service fails
and then relaunch that service,
making it once again available.
Another high availability
feature tied to the Watchdog
utility is heartbeat restart.
The heartbeat restart feature
Utilizes a specific feature of the server
hardware in order to detect when the
operating system has crashed or has hung,
and then it can restart
the operating system.
Details on the watchdog utility
are available in its man page.
In Jaguar Server,
we are proud to announce the addition
of two new high availability services.
The first of these is a new
utility called Disk Space Monitor.
The goal of Disk Space Monitor is
to monitor and manage the
amount of free space that
is available on system volumes.
It does this to assure that
services will not be interrupted
due to a lack of free space.
To accomplish this goal,
Disk Space Monitor
periodically checks volumes to
see if they're short on space.
And if a specific user-definable
threshold is exceeded,
it will utilize a notification
script to alert the administrator
Allowing them to know
whether of the... Excuse me.
It will send a notification
to the administrator informing
them of the situation.
If a second user-definable
threshold is exceeded,
the disk space monitor will
execute a recovery script.
That recovery script can take certain
predefined actions in an attempt to
free up disk space on those volumes
found short to be free of disk space.
This slide lists the default recovery
actions that Disk Space Monitor can take.
As you can see,
these recovery actions are
geared toward managing log files.
This is because on a server,
log files are usually active and
recording the transactions of the
services that server is providing.
As such,
these log files are continually growing.
Log files are probably the
number one cause for volumes
running short of free space.
But notice that this slide
says default actions.
Since Disk Space Monitor uses
a recovery script,
that script is extensible by the
administrator so that it can deal
with a variety of file types.
The second high availability
service we're announcing
today is called IP Failover.
With IP Failover,
the system administrator can create a
server scenario whereby a standby server
can take over the network address of a
primary server when failure is detected.
When the standby server detects
that the primary server is no
longer functioning properly,
it will perform...
The failover action,
taking the IP address of that server.
When it detects that the primary
server is again functioning properly,
it will perform what we
call a failback action,
relinquishing the primary
server's network address.
The standby server will send email
notifications for all transitions,
and a mechanism is provided
for the standby server to
perform multiple ordered actions
before and after acquiring or
relinquishing a network address.
Here are a few tidbits on IP failover.
First of all,
standard OS mechanisms are used to notify
network services of the transitions.
There is an option for providing
notifications without actually
performing the IP failover.
You'd utilize this if you just
wanted to monitor a system.
Failover scripts are extensible,
allowing system administrators
to custom tailor IP failovers'
actions to their specific needs.
IP failover's simple and flexible
design makes it easy to leverage
in a multitude of scenarios.
And it is an excellent
solution for certain scenarios.
For example,
For example, take the case of a server
that's providing static data
over the world wide web.
Sorry for the pause.
In that particular case,
IP failover would be one component
of the complete solution.
It would be providing the static data.
However,
I would want to point out on this
slide that the actual mirroring
of the data to the standby server
is not a component of IP failover.
This is a typical usage slide.
Here we have a primary
server and a standby server.
Each have a public address
and a private address.
So each of these machines
has two network interfaces.
Disk storage is mirrored
to the standby server.
Again, IP failover does not
accomplish that mirroring.
That's done by another mechanism.
So both of these machines have
a well-known address and a
lesser-known private address.
The primary server has a process
that's repeatedly broadcasting on
the network that it's alive and well.
And the standby server is listening for
those messages from the primary server.
Here we see the broadcast process
of IP failover on the primary
server and the listening process of
IP failover on the standby server.
Note that broadcasts are
sent over both networks.
In a real scenario,
the primary server will probably
be doing something interesting,
like serving up product data
sheets via the World Wide Web.
Here you can see the web server
sending and receiving data to and
from the network while the broadcast
process continues to send its
packets over both network interfaces.
Of course, the standby server may be
doing something as well,
like
Like analyzing SETI radio telescope data
for a project underway at UC Berkeley.
So let's look at the failure situation.
It looks like somebody's
tripped a circuit breaker here.
I guess it's a good thing our standby
server's on a different circuit.
So you can see the broadcast packets
have stopped coming into the standby
server and a failure is detected.
Immediately,
an email notification is sent.
Next, an ordered set of
pre-acquisition scripts are run.
In this case,
we have a single script which is going
to shut down the SETI analysis program.
Stopping the study analysis program
relieves the load on our standby server
so that it may do the important work of
providing the service that our primary
server was doing before it went down.
Next, the standby server must acquire the
public address of the primary server.
It assigns that address to
the network interface that
corresponds to the public network.
And then finally, an ordered set of
post-acquisition scripts are run.
In this case, we have a single script
that starts the web server.
and the web server is started.
At this point, our standby server is
servicing web requests,
masquerading as the primary server,
and it's listening for the
primary server to return.
Now here are a couple of important
points about the way IP failover works.
First, the failover action will only take
place when the broadcast packets
are missing from both the public
network and the private network.
And second, if broadcast packets are
missing on only one network,
we have what we refer to as an anomaly.
Anomalies do not cause the
failover action to take place,
but they do cause the
notification action to take place.
Here is an example of an anomaly.
As you can see,
the primary server continues
to perform in a normal fashion.
And, as you can see,
it's not particularly desirable for
the standby server to acquire the
primary server's public network address.
It's important to note that the
private network is used to verify
failure and detect recovery.
Anomalies never cause the failover
but always trigger notification.
Failback works similarly to failover
with notifications and pre- and
post-address release extensibility.
For example,
using the web server scenario
from the previous slides,
the failback would occur as follows.
First, the standby server would notice
that the primary server had
returned to full functionality.
Next, it would run the set
of pre-release scripts.
In this particular case,
it would just shut down the web server.
Then it would relinquish the
public address that belongs
to the primary server.
And then finally, it would run a set of
post-release scripts.
In this case, it would restart the
SETI analysis program.
This slide lists the various
components of IP failover.
The broadcast process,
the listener process,
the notification script,
a variety of sample scripts
that we intend to provide,
and then of course the man pages
that go along with these programs.
Now I would like to introduce
you to Rusty Tucker,
manager of our file systems group.
Hi, my name is Rusty Tucker.
I'm going to take a few minutes
today to bring you up to date with
some of the changes we're making
in file services for Jaguar Server.
The Jaguar server includes
a number of upgrades,
especially in the area of security,
performance, administration,
and support for AFP home directories.
The first thing we'll take a look
at are the security upgrades.
As you may have heard,
we have Kerberos support
baked into the OS now.
There's a framework that's based
on the MIT work included in Jaguar
Server as well as the Jaguar Desktop.
What we've done in file services is
take that and include Kerberos v5
support in both the FTP and AFP servers.
In AFP,
we've taken the extra step of including
Kerberos v5 mutual authentication.
Mutual authentication not only
authenticates the client with the server,
but also the server with the client.
The net effect of that is that this
ensures that the server you're connecting
to isn't being spoofed on the network.
For Kerberos v4,
we're supporting that in the
AFP client as a legacy option only.
So if you have an existing
infrastructure with Kerberos
v4 deployed AFP services there,
the Jaguar client will fit right in.
The final security upgrade
is for secure connections,
secure AFP connections.
Here we've taken the Mac OS X,
leveraged Mac OS X support for
SSH and reduced that to just a single
checkbox in the Mac OS X client
to turn on AFP connections,
AFP sessions,
tunneled through an SSH connection.
And this provides encryption
for the full AFP session,
not just the password transfer,
but the data transfer as well.
So it keeps your data private in
any transfers across the Internet.
Jaguar includes a number of
AFP performance improvements.
A number of these,
we've optimized the TCP stack
that's in the kernel,
and that helps not only AFP but
any networking application.
We've also made optimizations
within the AFP server itself.
The effect of this overall is that now
with AFP sequential read performance,
we're getting up to 700
megabits per second.
But even if you don't stress
your servers that high,
even at the lower data transfer rates,
AFP is consuming far less resources,
and that leaves a lot available
for more for your web and mail
services that are running there.
The AFP server now allocates
threads in response to demand.
And so what that means is that the
AFP server can adjust its footprint to
meet the load that's currently demanded.
And this gives us a
lot better scalability.
Mount times have improved.
We've improved that
currently by two seconds,
and we're continuing to
work to improve it more.
Where you'll see this is when you're
in finder's connect to menu item
and logging into an AFP server.
That'll be much faster
in the Jaguar client.
The Jaguar client also employs
data caching when you're opening
files in a read-only access.
And, of course,
this is going to be a big improvement for
any kind of data that's read repeatedly.
And it doesn't work so well for
access to database-type files.
So the AFP client avoids these caching
strategies when files are opened
read-write or in a read-shared mode.
So you'll want to take
advantage of that in your code.
Jaguar now includes quota
support on both HFS Plus and
the UNIX file system bottoms,
and we've updated AFP to
take advantage of that.
You'll notice applications will be
receiving disk quota errors now,
and so you'll want to update your
applications to take advantage
of that and provide appropriate
error messages when that occurs.
These quotas are managed
by Server Manager within
the user's home directory.
Although anything that would
be manually configured,
AFP would also take advantage of that.
We've completely rewritten the
sharing user interface for Jaguar.
It's all done in Cocoa.
It supports in-place file system
navigation and the ability to
set privileges in a batch mode,
which we think is really
going to be great productivity
enhancement for system admins.
We also support per-service SharePoint,
so that means now you can create
one SharePoint that is just
unique for AFP and another,
for example, that is FTP only.
It isn't just one button, share is all,
although that mode is an option,
and you can go in there and tweak it.
The SharePoint names, by default,
the SharePoint names will be the same
as the directory that's being shared.
But we got a lot of feedback that
people wanted to improve on that,
create a custom SharePoint name
for different SharePoints,
even to the point of providing a unique
SharePoint name for different services.
AFP home directories are a really
important part of Jaguar Server.
Our goal here is to make the
AFP home directory just a transparent
replacement for your hard drive,
except that it's available
from anywhere on the network.
So part of our work there
was to provide automatic
reconnect within the AFP client.
So any time the connection is lost,
the AFP client can transparently
reconnect you to the server.
There's no having to re-log in,
really no notice in any
loss of the connection.
Now for a server admin,
this means you can turn
on idle disconnect on your
home directory servers,
and that'll help you support a large
number of users with a single server.
We've also updated the AFP protocol,
which is now at version 3.1,
to provide better UNIX fidelity.
And a lot of what this means is that
we're following the UNIX permissions
model a bunch more closely than we did
with the Apple share servers or AFP 3.0.
Today, in an AFP connection,
you'll see the true owner and group
as well as the permissions that are
coming directly from the server.
We also support symlinks and
delete while open for better
compatibility with BSD command
line tools and Cocoa applications.
Part of the feedback we got in
Mac OS X Server 10.0 and 10.1
was that admins wanted to be
able to do user imports much more
quickly than we had supported.
So now we're deferring
to improve that speed.
We're deferring the creation of
the home directory to actually
when you log in over AFP.
You may notice a very small
delay in the login time,
much less than a second
on the first connection,
but there's no penalty after that.
In fact, if you saw Eric's demo here
in the previous session,
that in fact happened.
So now I'd like to
turn this back to Kazu,
who's going to wrap up
with the web platform.
OK, web platform.
So, a Jaguar server with its
collection of industry standard
software plus Apple-developed
software is a great web platform.
At the foundation, we have Apache,
the world's most popular web server.
We bundled the latest version of
Apache 1.3.x as well as a number
of popular open source packages.
And on top of that solid foundation,
we've implemented a high performance
front-end cache that pretty much doubles
the performance of static page serving.
We also bundle a few
Apple-developed modules,
such as enhancing capabilities
for things such as allowing
short-look search of your website.
And then on top of all of that,
we have set up administration
and monitoring software,
such as the Server Status application
you saw earlier.
So let's look at some of the tools
that are built into Jaguar Server.
Jaguar Server first
ships with WebObjects.
It's a top-rated application
server from Apple.
And if you're interested
in this technology,
I believe there are around 15
sessions this year at WWDC,
so you can learn all you want about it.
We also bundle MySQL,
which is a very popular
database package out there.
And if you'd like to
have a scripting engine,
we have both PHP and Perl
that's pre-installed as
part of the Jaguar server.
We also have Tomcat if you
want to use Java Serverlet
or want to serve JSP pages.
Jaguar server also include a fast and
robust implementation of Java VM complete
with a whole development environment.
We also have a patch 2 bundle,
as Eric mentioned earlier,
although the default
server is still 1.3.x.
And last but not least,
we have a built-in
media streaming server,
QTSS.
It lets you stream both live and
stored media in different formats,
including QuickTime,
industry standard MPEG-4, and MP3.
And it has a long list of cool
features such as Playlist Broadcaster,
which lets you create your own
internet radio station pretty easily.
So with QTSS,
you can easily integrate streaming live
media into your whole web solutions.
And there is a separate
session on QTSS on Thursday,
so it would be great if you can
join us there and learn more
about this cool technology.
Here's a list of some other sessions
that you may be interested in.
We've talked about
directory services already.
It's on Thursday at 3:30 p.m.
in Room C.
The QTSS session is also
on Thursday at 2:00,
across the street in the Civic.
And if you're interested in
learning more about Managed Desktop,
which is basically
Mac Manager for Mac OS X and more,
there's a session on Friday at 9:00.
And then the Netboot and Netinstall
session is on Thursday at 10:30.
The server feedback session
this year is on Friday at 5:00,
the last session of the conference.
There is a corporate session
on Thursday at 5 o'clock.
And lastly,
the Zero Conf Networking or Rendezvous
session is also on Thursday at 2 o'clock.
If you have any questions
about developing software
for a Jaguar server platform,
please contact our
developer relations person,
Tom Weyer.
His email address is listed here.
Lastly,
here is a list of online resources if you
want to learn more about Mac OS X Server.
We have a product page at www.apple.com.
If you go to Apple's open source website,
you can learn more about the details
of streaming server and open directory.
If you are interested in learning more
about Mac OS X Server administration
or want to be certified,
you can find that information on
our website at train.apple.com.
And you can download information such as
API documentation and AFP 3.1 protocol
documentation from our developer website
at developer.apple.com/techpubs/macos10.
You have to navigate down
to the networking section.